# 5. Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Date: 2025-03-05

## Status

Accepted.

## Context

There are multiple options on how to deploy applications.  Common options are...
1. On premise in your own datacenter.
2. In the cloud with Cloud.gov.
3. In the cloud with providers such as AWS, GCloud, and Azure.

We do not know who will deploy and use this application.  There are many options to pick from with differing needs.

## Decision

We will target AWS for deployments.

Option 1 is a non-starter.  Many entities do not have the capital to invest in a datacenter.  Plus, you greatly reduce
your options when it comes how deployments occur and the engineers who want to work in such an environment.

Option 2 is a possible solution.  We do not know who will need to run this application and the trajectory of this
project.  They may not need the ATO security controls benefit of Cloud.gov.  Even with this benefit, there are still
plenty of controls that Cloud.gov does not completely cover for ATO.  You are also limited on the possible solutions one
can pursue with Cloud.gov because you don't have any or as easy access to the breadth of options that your classic cloud
providers provide.  This application would presumably be rated as FISMA Moderate given the information indented to be
ingested which is [expensive](https://cloud.gov/pricing/).  Lastly, Cloud Foundry, which Cloud.gov is built upon, is
slightly outdated.  We could revisit Cloud.gov in the future.

That leaves option 3.  AWS has the most market share and most expansive offerings.  There is also an AWS enclave in GSA.

## Consequences

The entity, if within the federal government, will need to go through a bit more hoops during the ATO process because
we are not picking Cloud.gov.

We have many more options and solutions to pick from, so we don't need to artificially limit ourselves.

Governmental and non-governmental entities will be able to find engineering talent to deploy this application for
themselves.
